Sorry Tomoya. Akio
must have sneaked out
while I wasn't looking.
You know him, he's always
running off to play.
That's a shame. I really
needed to talk to him.
I'm so sorry about your father.
That must be hard on you.
I'm fine. I'm the one
who should be sorry.
[Sanae]: Don't say that.
None of us feel that way...
not me, not Akio,
and certainly not Nagisa.
Wish everyone else
was like that.
Who knows if I'll ever get
a job offer that good again.
It's not fair.
If your life can change once, it
can change again for the better.
Besides, I'm sure Nagisa
will follow you to the end,
no matter how many twists
and turns your life might take.
Yeah. That's what she told me...
If she says she'll stay
with you... she means it.
Thanks for your support.
(good-natured chuckle)
Sorry to keep you two waiting!
There! Maybe some tea
will cheer you up!
Sure.
@Speaking of cheering you up;
@I just made a new kind of
breadúl can't wait for you to
try out!
Wait right here,
I'll go get some.
[Akio]: Oh? My little
princess came to visit?
Visit? I still live here!
Playing baseball, as usual?
I do other stuff! Anyway,
what are YOU doing here?
I called you, remember?
I said I was stopping by
for something important.
Buying bread's not that
big of a deal.
You don't have to call ahead.
Who said I came here
to buy bread?
I hate to break it to you, kid,
but you're not getting
a discount just cause
you're my daughter's boyfriend.
Actually, I should
charge you double!
Well, except for
Sanae's bread...
You can have her's
for the regular price.
@Dad, Mom'súright behind you.
Oh, I see how it is now...
my bread's nothing but...
It's nothing but
regular price to you!
Wait! Is regular price
all that bad!?
He doesn't mean it!
(muffled) I love your bread!
[Tomoya]: Old Man!
I need to talk to you,
all right? It's important.
I see. So that's
why you're here.
Yeah. A man-to-man talk.
All right, in that case...
We'll have a duel.
(wicked chuckle) You're long
overdue for a beatdown.
Why did I agree to this again?
Come on, I'll show you why
everyone in the neighborhood
calls me the
bread-baking Cy Young!
Here comes my hundred
mile an hour fastball!
Hit it if you can!
@You know about my shoulder!
@Why do you alwaysúmake
me do this crap?
So says the guy who got
the game-winning hit
the last time we played.
Listen... I'm not saying
you gotta hit a home run.
Just saying you gotta
hit something, all right?
[Akio]: As long as it ain't a
grounder or a pop fly, you're
good.
You win the duel.
Sure those are the rules
you wanna play by?
Yeah. If you win,
then I'll listen
to whatever you have to say.
@[Tomoya]ÚListening
isn't@good enough.
@You have to agree to
whateverúl say; No objections.
Tomo-
All right, fine.
If you score a solid hit, I'll
do anything and won't complain.
But if I win, I ain't listening
to a single word you say.
[Akio]: Fair enough?
Yeah.
Heh. Sounds like fun.
Here we go, kid!
Lemme know when you're
ready to lose again!
[robust laugh]
Are you all right?
I'm sorry...
@What the hell was I thinking?
@This is too important to betúon
a stupid game of baseball.
[Sanae]ÚDon't give up yet. If
you work hard enough, you can do
it.
Stand up and keep fighting. You
have to win for Nagisa's sake!
What's with this
all of a sudden?
I've been challenged to a
duel to decide my future!
Huh...?
Hmph. This kid doesn't
know when to quit, does he?
You can do it...
Come on boys, show us a
good fight out there!
@My forkball drops a solid
meter, better keep your eyes
open!
What, are you a pro?
@[robust laugh]úBetter
luck next time!
Why the hell do I
have to play in the rain?
Couldn't this wait
until tomorrow!?
This is a duel. I don't care
if it's rain or shine!
Don't worry, you two! I'll get
a bath ready when you're done!
All you're doing
is wasting my time.
This's your last chance.
Then let's do it.
[Akio]: You can't win.
It's tough, but sometimes,
you gotta face the facts.
I'm better than you, kid.
Tomoya...
I'm sure he knows by now.
I can tell.
He knows? Knows what?
It's like he's saying...
I'm still just a kid.
This isn't a fight
I can win right now.
I was stupid to think
I could protect anyone;
And I still have
a long way to go.
I think you're reading
into it too much.
Akio always acts like that;
Don't take it personally.
C'mon... I'll make
you a nice bath.
[Tomoya]: No. Not yet.
If I can't beat him in skill,
I'll just have to
beat him in willpower.
I'm gonna stay and practice.
But you-
[Sanae]: He's right.
Don't encourage him!
I know this is important to you.
If you're determined to keep
fighting, then I won't stop you.
Thank you.
@At any rate, I'm
goingúback to the bakery
@to make a bath for Akio.úYou
come along too, Nagisa.
But I...
Nagisa... when two men
are dueling for their lives,
you have to stand back
and respect that, okay?
Well, I guess so...
Nagisa?
Oh! Dad...
Old man...
Sure is coming down hard.
Guess it's another
rainy autumn, huh?
Hit or miss, this is the last
pitch you're gonna get. Ready?
Tomoya!
[Sanae]: Homerun!
Give me Nagisa's
hand in marriage!
Look at that, just like
me, when I was that age.
Really honey, I've
known you were alike
since I first met him!
You're two of a kind!
[Akio]: I was in a hurry to grow
up, @even though I didn't know
why.
Guess kids never learn, do they?
[Sanae]: All the more reason
you should understand.
[Akio]: Pick your head up.
If you ever make my
little girl suffer,
then I'm taking her
back from you.
You don't want to
test me on that, kid.
Then, you mean...
Thank you, Dad...
[Sanae]: Tomoya...
Nagisa isn't just our
daughter, she's our hope.
So I want you to know...
that from today on,
you're a part of that hope, too.
So never forget-your happiness
is our happiness as well.
In other words...
try your best to be happy, okay?
[Tomoya]: Before long,
autumn changed into winter.
Since I didn't have
to work on Christmas,
Nagisa and I spent
the day together.
Feel like I've beenúwaiting
for this all my life!
[Akio]ÚThe day I can finally
have@a drink with my daughter!
This is your first time
drinking sake, huh?
Yes. It's a new
experience for me.
Nagisa... no need
to force yourself, okay?
No, I can have one cup at least.
I have to... for dad's sake.
@Nagisa... You have
noúidea how proud I am
@to call youúmy daughter!
Booze really means a lot to you.
Here I go.
[Akio]:
Whoo! Just look at her go!
[hearty chuckle]
Uh... you look dizzy,
are you all right?
Hey Tomoya... you're so far
away; And why are you spinning?
Huh?
I like you up close. Yeah.
@You're drunkúalready, huh?
I'm not drunk, how dare you!
@I hate to break it to you,
úbut that's what all drunks say.
Tomoya...
You two are so lovey-dovey!
I don't think lovey-dovey
is the word for this!
Hey, Tomoya!
Uh, Yes?
I see you staring at my mom!
You cut that out!
What the heck are you
talking about?
@[Sanae]ÚYeah, Tomoya.
Like, @what's the deal, huh?
Oh, now you've got Sanae
drinking, too! Great!
Oh my, Tomoya,
could it be that you've taken
an interest in little old me?
Bored with me already, Tomoya?
Whoa! Here comes the cat fight!
One of those cats
is your wife, you know!
C'mon, Tomoya!
Who do you like better?
Oh my! Is he gonna
confess his love to me?
What do you mean? Of course I-
@[Akio]ÚPick Sanae.
Her boobs@are bigger.
Hey buddy! What are you getting
all flustered about... huh?
That proves he likes
Sanae after all.
No, no, no, no, no, no!
You don't like me?
No, it's not that! I mean,
I mean, like you as
a person, you know...
You admit it!
Ahhh! What the hell did I do
to deserve this!?
@[laughs] All right, I
thinkúwe've teased the boy
enough.
@Who cares if he likes you
orúnot; You've got me, don't ya?
I wasn't teasing him,
I was serious.
I might be interested, myself.
@What!? Don't leave me Sanae, úl
need your love! Make up your
mind, Tomoya! I'm waiting for an
answer!
[Akio]: Look at that!
Sleeping like a baby.
[Sanae]: Nagisa sure is
happy, isn't she?
Sure seems that way.
@What about you
TomoyaÚare you happy?
Yeah, of course I am.
All I want is to be with her.
It's funny. I guess that's
all I ever needed.
[Tomoya]: When her last
semester came around,
Nagisa's condition
worsened again.
Sorry, maybe I dragged
you around too much
during the break.
Oh, no... it's not your fault;
This always happens
around this time of year.
Will you be able to graduate?
It should be okay;
I wouldn't worry about it.
Even if I miss the rest of the
year, I attended enough days
in my last semester to pass.
I see... That's a
relief, at least.
Yeah.
[sobbing]
[Tomoya]: On the day of
the graduation ceremony...
Nagisa stared out towards school
from the window in her room.
[Mei]:
Hello, Sunohara residence.
Oh, hi, Mei. It's, uh, Okazaki.
[Mei]: Huh? OH! Okazaki?
Wow, it's been a while!
So, how are you doing?
[Mei]: Oh, I'm fine. Same old
same old. How are you and
Nagisa?
Y'know, not bad.
Is Sunohara around?
[Mei]: Actually,
he's not living here right now.
He's staying in a dorm.
A dorm?
[Mei]: Yeah, his company's dorm.
Hold on just a sec...
I'll get the number for you.
[Sunohara]: Yes, can I help you?
Sunohara? It's me.
Your pal Tomoya...
Huh? Okazaki? Seriously?
Yeah. How's it going?
Eh, I'm fine. Work kinda sucks.
A lot of stupid stuff
goes on at this company.
Actually, you got a minute?
I'd like to hear about it,
but some other time.
I have something
important to ask you.
Uh, so here's the deal...
Whatever time and date works
for you, works for me.
I still have to coordinate
things with everyone else,
but I'm sure it'll
work it out somehow.
You in?
[Sunohara]: I'm in the
middle of training right now.
If I leave the dorm
without permission,
they'll fire me for sure.
@Deal with it.
[Sunohara]:
You don't even care?!
@Ah come on, you can swing
itúfor a day, can't you?
[Sunohara]: I'm telling
you, it's not that simple.
This company isn't very
flexible, trust me.
@Please. Do it for me!
[Sunohara]: You mean for
Nagisa, right?
[sigh] All right,
I'll come up with something.
@That's better!
[Sunohara]: [sigh] So much
trouble for someone else's
girlfriend...
I can't believe it. I must
be a really nice guy, huh?
Of course. That's why
I'm asking you.
[Sunohara]: [chuckle] All right.
You can always catch me at this
hour, so call me again sometime.
Yeah. You bet.
Wow! The cherry trees
are so pretty!
Aren't you glad you came?
Being together like this really
brings back memories;
It makes me realize
how nice it was
to walk to school
with you every morning.
Yeah, same here.
Are you sure we can go
in here without permission?
Nah, it'll be fine.
I got it all worked out.
[Kyou]: Nagisa!
Hey!
[Sunohara]: Hey Nagisa!
It's been a while.
Who the hell are you?
Really. We haven't seen
each other in months
and that's what you say?
[Tomoya laughing] [Kyou]: I
know, pretty funny, huh?
When I saw him, I was like
who the heck invited this guy?
[Misae]: Yeah, we were making
fun of Sunohara the whole time
we were waiting for
you guys to show up.
[Kotomi]: I think it's a
little depressing, in a way.
Sunohara just isn't Sunohara
without his blond hair.
[Ryou]: In that case,
why don't we dye it for him
before he goes back home?
You're gonna get me fired!
It feels like I haven't
seen you in ages.
Are you doing all right?
Huh? Yeah... I'm better now!
I'm just glad this worked out.
I was afraid we wouldn't get to
see each other like this again.
Yeah. We were all disappointed
when we found out you weren't
coming to graduation,
but I imagine it was
even harder on you.
I can't believe Rie and I
were able to make it today;
Guess it just happened
to work out.
I'm surprised a lot of us
could make it.
The fact that we're all here
today is practically a miracle.
Yeah. If anything, I'd say
this is a miracle of love.
Oh my gosh, Yoshino,
you're SO right!
W-wait... I don't know
what's going on.
It's a graduation ceremony.
Huh?
[Ryou]: For you, Nagisa.
[Nagisa]: Huh?!
We had to pull a few strings,
but luckily, we had
Mr. Koumura on our side.
Since he worked here
for so long,
they didn't mind
lending him the school.
I'm happy to help.;
I couldn't turn down a request
from one of my last students.
[Tomoya]: It really means
a lot, sir. Thank you.
[Koumura]:
And now, without further ado...
let's begin the
graduation ceremony.
Nagisa Furukawa.
[Nagisa]: Yessir!
Congratulations, young lady.
This graduation diploma
certifies that you have
completed this school's
prescribed curriculum.
Thank you very much, sir.
@In the time I spent at
thisúhigh school... I worked
hard...
@and faced many challenges.
I'm always shy
around strangers...
and I'm not very good
at making friends, either.
That became a big problem
for me when I got sick
and had to repeat
my senior year.
In the spring, when I started
my second year as a senior...
I found myself all alone
in my new class;
It was really crushing.
It was like time
had carried on without me
and the world had
left me behind.
When I realized that,
suddenly, I couldn't
move forward any more.
That's why I stood there
each morning,
frozen at the bottom
of this hill.
But then... Tomoya showed upúand
gave me the courage I needed
to climb that hill.
[Nagisa]: After that... I met
all sorts of wonderful people.
Thanks to the help
of all my friends here,
I was able to form
the drama club...
and even though
I was being selfish,
you helped me put on a play
for the school festival.
But then, in the next semester,
I got sick just like before.
And even though so many
of my friends graduated,
I had to repeat my
senior year again.
Even still, I was
determined to try my best!
I wanted to fight... to grow
stronger than I was before!
Even if my body was weak,
I wanted to live my life with
all of the strength I could.
And all the people standing
here today were the ones
who gave me the
courage to do that.
But it was even harder
than I thought,
since Tomoya, Miyazawa,
and Nishina all ended up
in different classes from me.
Although I had friends...
I started the
semester alone again,
just like I did the year before.
Despite all that... despite how
tough it was for me...
I think the time I spent at
this school was priceless,
and I wouldn't trade
it for the world.
Yes, it took me five
years to graduate,
and it wasn't always fun...
but I still love this school.
Because it's the place where I
gave it my all every single day.
Thank you. I couldn't
have done it without you.
Congratulations on graduating.
[Tomoya]:
And so... at long last...
Nagisa's time at this school...
finally came to an end.
Anyway... we're going
to get married.
@I see... úCongratulations.
Thank you very much.
@[Naoyuki]ÚAh...
I'm sorry, @Nagisa, was it?
Yes. That's right, sir.
@Take good care
of him... Nagisa.
Yes sir, I will.
@[Naoyuki]ÚI wish
you both@the best.
[Tomoya]: We registered our
marriage without a ceremony.
[Tomoya]: "Nagisa Okazaki."
It's funny...
but somehow, it makesúme
happy just to hear that.
[Tomoya]: Calm down!
Come on, Tomoya, you've heard
her taking a bath at her house
plenty of times!
It's no big deal!
[Tomoya]: What's wrong?!
[Nagisa]: I'm sorry! I didn't
know the water would be so cold!
[Tomoya]: And thus, Nagisa and
I began our new life together.